
Draft Version 1 (July 20, 2024).

Discution is at
https://github.com/mjoras/SCONE-PROTOCL/blob/main/documents/charter.md

---------------------------

Video traffic is 70% of the overall traffic volume on the Internet and
is expected to grow to 80% by 2028.  Across developed and emerging
markets video traffic forms 50-80% of traffic volume on mobile networks.
New formats like short form videos have seen tremendous growth in recent
years.  These growth trends are likely to increase with new populations
coming online on mobile-first markets.

Local access network conditions may constrain the maximum throughput for
a given client, or be so volatile as to rapidly change the maximum
throughput throughout the course of a session.  In addition, despite
capacity augmentation work such as deployment of new generations or new
bands of spectrum, capacity augmentation efforts are not keeping pace
with growth in demand.  These network operators have found it faster and
less expensive to invest in shaping (also called throttling) of video
traffic on a per-flow basis, which negatively affects video stream
quality.  This is done for both network management and business
motivations.  Network operators cannot explicitly measure the
degradation to end user quality of experience (QoE) caused by traffic
shaping, making this approach open loop.

Video traffic usually employs adaptive bitrate (ABR) schemes to
dynamically adjust the video quality (and thus the data rate) in
response to changing network conditions.  Ideally, when a network
operator performs traffic shaping, the ABR scheme should adapt the video
quality in use to reflect the data rate allowed by shaping, and converge
on a bitrate allowed by the shaper.  In practice this convergence is
extremely difficult to achieve while maintaining a good user experience.
Application providers are even designing algorithms to detect the
presence of such traffic shapers and estimate the targeted shaping rate,
however, these algorithms are likely to be both inaccurate and complex.
Instead, it would be beneficial, for both the application provider and
network operator, to signal network attributes to the application to
self-adapt its video traffic to conform to the specified
characteristics.  The application provider has the ability to measure
end user QoE and therefore can self-adapt with QoE feedback.

The Secure Communication of Network Properties (SCONEPRO) Working
Group's primary objective is to specify a 'maximum achievable
throughput' property for QUIC-based streaming video and an on-path
protocol for securely communicating this property from a network device
to a client endpoint.

The properties of this mechanism are as follows:

1. Flow associativity.  The network communicates applicable properties
as they relate to specific QUIC connections. This ensures that
applications can authorize and apply actions on a per-QUIC connection
basis.

2. Single communication channel for both client initiation and network
properties.  The communication channel is initiated by a client device,
just as the end to end application flows are also typically initiated by
a client. The same communication channel is used to provide network
properties to the client.

3. Network properties sent from the network.  The network provides the
properties to the client. The client might communicate with the network,
but won't be providing network properties.

4. On-path establishment.  That is, no off-path element is needed to
establish the communication channel between the entity communicating the
properties and the client.

5. Optionality.  The communication channel is strictly optional for the
functioning of application flows.  A client's application flow must
function even if the client does not establish the channel.

6. Properties are not directives.  A client is not mandated to act on
properties received from the network, and the network is not mandated to
act in conformance with the properties.

7. Resilient to NAT rebinding, QUIC connection migration, and Multipath
QUIC operation.  The mechanism will allow the communication channel to
be resilient to NAT rebinding, as long as the client is still served by
the same logical Communication Service Provider (CSP). Additionally, the
mechanism must work with flows that utilize QUIC connection migration or
Multipath QUIC, and be able to distinguish network properties from two
or more paths.

8. Scalability.  The mechanism must be scalable and implementable by
Internet infrastructure as it exists today, for example mobile network
packet cores.

9. Security.  The mechanism will have the ability to invoke security
mechanisms that provide confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity of
the communication. The working group will consider the value and
implications of different confidentiality modes of the communication.

The following topics are out of scope for SCONEPRO:

A. Support for streaming video flows carried in other transports and
substrates than QUIC.

B. Support for other media types that would require awareness of
additional network attributes beyond the attributes applicable to ABR
video.

C. Support for general purpose network attributes. If additional network
attributes are identified, the working group will request recharter to
add them to SCONEPRO.

D. Support for congestion signaling from the network. SCONEPRO should
not be treated as mechanism to replace congestion control or rate
adaptation.

The working group will consider [RFC
9419](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9419.html) as a source of
principles in the development of this mechanism, and will consider
relevant lessons from past IETF work in Path Aware Networking from [RFC
9049](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9049.html).

The working group will coordinate with other groups, both inside and
outside the IETF, as work progresses. Some of these groups might be

* WEBTRANS (in the IETF, which coordinates with W3C, responsible for
  browser specifications and APIs)

* MOQ (producing a specification for streaming media over QUIC)

* AVTCORE (producing an RTP-over-QUIC specification for real-time media)

* MOPS (responsible for discussion of video technologyâ€™s requirements of
  networking standards, as well as proposals for new uses of IP
  technology in video)

* QUIC or HTTPbis, (if the working group identifies requirements for
  protocols used by SCONEPRO)

* TSVWG and CCWG (if these working groups work on mechanisms that could
  be used in response to changes in SCONEPRO path properties)

The proposed deliverables for SCONEPRO are as follows:

* Develop a standard track "SCONEPRO protocol" to securely communicate
  network information to clients.

* Develop an Informational SCONEPRO Protocol Applicability and
  Manageability specification.
